\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c %**start of header
@setfilename ponymenu.info
@settitle ponymenu
@afourpaper
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@finalout
@c %**end of header


@defindex op
@synindex op vr
@synindex cp pg


@copying
This manual is for ponymenu.

Copyright @copyright{} 2012, 2013 Mattias Andrée

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Terminal based application menu
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@titlepage
@title ponymenu
@subtitle Terminal based application menu
@author Mattias Andrée, maandree@@member.fsf.org
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents



@menu
* Overview::                          Overview of ponymenu.
* Invoking::                          Invoking ponymenu.
* Configure::                         Configuring ponymenu.
* Interaction::                       Using ponymenu, interaction.
* License of ponymenu::               License of ponymenu.
* GNU General Public License::        GNU General Public License.
* GNU Free Documentation License::    GNU Free Documentation License.
@c * Concept index::                     Concept index.
@end menu



@node Overview
@chapter Overview

ponymenu as a terminal based application menu program that
allowed you to make your own menu with multiple levels,
that can be quickly browsed in the terminal.

This is more comfortably and faster than a normal graphical
application menu, and it can even be used in the TTY, which
is create of you have many programs that are started with
arguments or if you do not know every program's name.



@node Invoking
@chapter Invoking

To run ponymenu, just execute @command{ponymenu}.

Options that you can execute @command{ponymenu} with, none
of which will start the menu.

@table @command
@item -v
@itemx --version
Get the installed version of ponymenu.
@item -h
@itemx --help
Print a very short help.
@item -c
@itemx --copyright
Print copyright information.
@end table

It is recommended to make a one letter (for example @command{q}
if you are using qwerty of qwertz) alias to ponysay in you shell.

It is possible, although it is rather useless, to give
@command{ponymenu} to add to the command line it executes.
To do this add the argument @code{+} followed by the arguments
you want to append.



@node Configure
@chapter Configure

The menu is loaded from one of the following files,
it is selected in top down order:
@enumerate 1
@item @file{$@{XDG_CONFIG_HOME@}/ponymenu/ponymenu}
@item @file{$@{HOME@}/.config/ponymenu/ponymenu}
@item @file{$@{HOME@}/.ponymenu}
@item @file{/etc/ponymenu}
@end enumerate

This configuration uses a rooted bracket tree structure. The
file must contain exactly one top level round bracket, which
can contain additional brackets. These inner brackets contains
key–value pair brackets. A comment in file is started with a
semicolon (;) and contains until the end of the file. Brackets
contains either strings or other brackets, strings may be
written in quoted form. In other configuration files there are
five key names, the key is the first string in a bracket, there
others are values.

@table @code
@item name
The name of the menu item. All values are concatenated, with
one blank space as delimited, into one value.
@item req
Requirement for showing the menu item. @code{x} for only
visible in graphical environments, @code{tty} for only visible
in non-graphical environments.
@item cmd
The command to run, which value is one argument.
@item desc
A one line description of the menu item. All values are
concatenated, with one blank space as delimited, into one value.
@item inner
Inner menu items.
@end table



@node Interaction
@chapter Interaction

Use character keys filter the menu items, by
which character they begin width. The additional
keys are: 

@table @kbd
@item tab
Go one level up in the menu.
@item backspace
@itemx left
Erase one character from the filter.
@item right
Autocomplete as much as possible in the filter.
@item up
Go to the previous menu item.
@item down
Go to the next menu item.
@item enter
Run or enter select menu item.
@end table



@node License of ponymenu
@appendix License of ponymenu

@flushleft
ponymenu – terminal based application menu

Copyright © 2012, 2013  Mattias Andrée (maandree@@member.fsf.org)

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@end flushleft

@node GNU General Public License
@appendix GNU General Public License
@include gpl.texinfo

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl.texinfo

@c @node Concept index
@c @appendix Concept index
@c @printindex pg


@bye

